 
Article I – Name

The name of this club shall be J. Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group henceforth referred to as J. Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group, Reynolds LUG, and/or JSRLUG. 

Article II – Purpose

The purpose of J. Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group shall be to to support, promote, educate, and learn about opensource software and its benefits/applications.  This will have the benefit of increasing professional marketability of members and increasing their computer science knowledge. This is in line with the J Sargeant Reynolds Community College mission to to develop students for success in the workplace and build skills that translate to the workplace.  

Article III – Membership

Section 1. Membership Eligibility. Membership in The J Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group shall be limited to J Sargeant Reynolds Community College students currently enrolled at the College  with a GPA of at least 2.0 or greater. Individuals interested in joining J Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group can join by attending the regular meetings and requesting to be a member. 

Section 2. Non-discrimination Policy. The J Saregeant Reynolds Linux Users Group shall not discriminate against any individuals based on age, race, religion, color, gender, sexual orientation, physical or mental disability, or national origin by denying an individual membership, attendence to and full particiation in any meetings/events/activities, or fair and repectful treatment from all other members. Any discrimination should be reported to the Officers and/or Advisor.

Section 3. Membership Responsibilities. Members of the J Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group shall attend at least 2 meetings each semester.

Section 4. Resignation. Members shall be asked to resign from J Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group if they do not meet the requirements of Article III.  Members may also be asked to resign if they are deemed a substantial disruption to club business in so much that they have violated school policy in some manner and with a vote of ¾ of student members. If a member wishes to resign from the club voluntarily or resign from an officer position, they shall inform the president or vice president in person or by email. 


Article IV – Officers/Advisor

Section 1. Elected Officers. Elected officers of the J. Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group shall be the President and Vice President. A quorum of one half of members plus one shall be present in order to select the elected officers with a majority vote needed to pass the vote. Regular elections will take place the second meeting of each semester. Elected officers shall remain in their roles until the next regular election is held. At which time new officers will be elected or the current officers re-elected.  If an officer is graduating, has left, and/or been asked to resign a simple majority vote of any members at the meeting is all that is required to elect a temporary officer until such time that a group of one half plus one members is present at a meeting.

Section 2. Officer Duties. 

A. President

1. Preside over regular meetings.

2. Organize, schedule, and execute club activities.

3. Provide a positive, welcoming experience to all club members regardless of skill level/previous experience.

4.  Ensure the successful completion of all official club business to include but not limited too forms required by J Sargeant Reynolds Community College.

B. Vice President

1. Preside over regular meetings when president is not available or able to. 

2. Take roll and notes at regular meetings.

3. Provide a positive, welcoming experience to all club members regardless of skill level/previous experience.

4. Provide back-up to the president on completion of regular club business.

Section 3. Advisor. The advisor of the J Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group shall advise the President, and Vice President on matters regarding school policy.  The advisor may suggest events, meetings, and speakers.  The advisor should be present for all business meetings and provide advice where proposed policy may conflict with school policy or mission statement. The advisor is also the liaison to the Office of Student Life. 

Section 4. Removal of Officers. A quorum of at least three quarters of the voting members must be present to conduct a vote to request the resignation of an officer with a majority vote needed to pass the vote and remove the officer. 

Article V – Meetings

Meetings will be held at an interval determined at the beginning of the semester by majority vote. Dates and times will be determined by the members that show up to the first meeting of a new semester.  At least one half of the total membership plus one of J. Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group must be present to conduct a business meeting; two of these members must be officers.  Business meetings are any meetings which require changing the club constitution and/or involve a budget of any kind.  Regular meetings can be conducted with any number of members as long as an officer is present.  Regular meetings are sufficient for scheduling events with no budget and scheduling other non-business meetings.   Any meeting that does not meet these requirements is a regular non-business meeting.
 
Article VI – Parliamentary Authority

The rules contained in the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the J. Sargeant Reynolds’ Linux Users Group. 


Article VII – Amendments

For meetings in which the J. Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group wishes to amend their constitution, a quorum of ½ of members plus one additional member to include all officers must be present; the staff adviser shall also be present or informed by email of details before and after the meeting. The proposed amendment must be announced at the meeting preceding the meeting where the amendment vote will occur. The constitution shall include the date it was last revised. 

Also, the constitution shall be reviewed for revisions every year by the Officers of J. Sargeant Reynolds Linux Users Group. The Officers will decide if any amendments need to occur, but in the event that the constitution needs no revisions, a majority vote of the club membership shall pass the constitution until the following year.

Amendment 1

If need arise to fill an officer position mid semester, due to unforeseen circumstances, a new election may be held, and Quorum requirements will be waived.
